# Introduction

<?rfc toc="yes"?>
<?rfc symrefs="yes"?>
<?rfc sortrefs="yes"?>
<?rfc subcompact="no"?>
<?rfc compact="yes"?>
<?rfc comments="yes"?>

As described in [ECS](#RFC7871), many Authoritative Servers today return different responses based on the perceived geolocation of the user. Traditionally, Authoritative Server guesses the user's geolocation by the source IP address of dns query. 

ECS is an [EDNS0](#RFC6891) option to carry client subnet information in dns queries for Authoritative Server. Compared to source IP address of dns query, ECS will help Authoritative Server to guess the client's geolocation more precisely because of the DNS forwarding query structure. However, ECS raises some privacy concerns because it leaks client subnet information on the resolution path to the Authoritative Server.
   
This document is inspired by ECS, describes an EDNS ISP Location (EIL) extension to address the privacy problem of ECS, find the right balance between privacy improvement and user experience optimization. EIL is defined to convey ISP location information that is relevant to the DNS message. It will provide sufficient information for the Authoritative Server to decide the response without guessing geolocation of the IP address.

EIL is intended for those Local Forwarding Resolvers, Recursive Resolvers and Authoritative Servers that would benefit from the extension and not for general purpose deployment. This document provides recommendations on when this protocol extension should be used. EIL can safely be ignored by servers that choose not to implement or enable it. 
   
# Requirements Notation

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [](#RFC2119).

# Terminology

Basic terms used in this specification are defined in the documents [](#RFC1034), [](#RFC1035), [](#RFC7719) and [](#RFC7871).

EIL:  EDNS ISP Location

ECS:  EDNS Client Subnet, described in [](#RFC7871).

Local Forwarding Resolver: Forwarding Resolver is described in [](#RFC7871). It is the first Forwarding Resolver which receives dns queries from Stub Resolver, usually deployed nearby the first-hop router such as public Wi-Fi hotspot routers and home routers.

Recursive Resolver: described in [](#RFC7871). It is the last-hop before Authoritative Server in the dns query path.

Intermediate Nameserver:  described in [](#RFC7871). Any nameserver in between the Stub Resolver and the Authoritative Nameserver, such as a Recursive Resolver or a Forwarding Resolver.

Intermediate Forwarding Resolver: Any Forwarding Resolver in between the Local Forwarding Resolver and Recursive Resolver.

Authoritative Server: described in [](#RFC7719) and [](#RFC2182). It is a server that knows the content of a DNS zone from local knowledge, and thus can answer queries about that zone without needing to query other servers.

# Overview

This document provides an EDNS0 option to allow Local Forwarding Resolvers and Recursive Resolvers, if they are willing, to forward details about the isp location of client when talking to other nameservers.

The format of EIL option is described in Section 5. EIL can be added in queries sent by Local Forwarding Resolvers or Recursive Resolvers in a way that is transparent to Stub Resolvers and end users. EIL is only defined for the Internet (IN) DNS class.

Like ECS, Authoritative Servers could provide a better answer by using precise isp location in EIL.
Intermediate Nameservers could send EIL query and cache the EIL response.
This document also provides a mechanism to signal Intermediate Nameservers that they do not want EIL treatment for specific queries.

Security concerns are like ECS, such as cache growth, spoof EDNS0 option and privacy, etc. Mitigation techniques are discussed in Section 6.

# The EIL EDNS0 option

EIL is an EDNS0 option to include the isp location of client in DNS messages. 

EIL is structured as follows:

                    +0 (MSB)                            +1 (LSB)
          +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
       0: |                         OPTION-CODE                           |
          +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
       2: |                         OPTION-LENGTH                         |
          +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
       4: |                         COUNTRY-CODE                          |
          +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
       6: |                         AREA-CODE                             |
          |                                                               |
          +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
      10: |                         ISP                                   |
          |                                                               |
          +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

          Total: 14 octets.

   *  OPTION-CODE, 2 octets, defined in [](#RFC6891). EDNS option code should be assigned by the expert review process as defined 
by the DNSEXT working group and the IESG.

   *  OPTION-LENGTH, 2 octets, defined in [](#RFC6891), contains the length of the payload (everything after OPTION-LENGTH) in octets.

   *  COUNTRY-CODE, 2 octets, upppercase, defined in [](#ISO3166), indicates the country information of the client’s IP. For example, China's COUNTRY-CODE is CN.

   *  AREA-CODE, 4 octets, uppercase, indicates the area information of the client’s IP, using area code of the phone number. AREA-CODE can be found in [](#AREA-CODES). For example, The AREA-CODE of FuZhou City is 0591, the AREA-CODE of QuanZhou City is 0595. AREA-CODE supports fuzzy matching, 059X indicates 0590~0599 covered the whole FuJian Province.

   *  ISP, 4 octets, uppercase, indicates the ISP information of the client’s IP, using shortcut names. ISP shortcut names are unique within the context of the COUNTRY-CODE. For example, the shortcut name of China Telecommunications Corporation is TEL, the shortcut name of China United Network Communications is UNI, the shortcut name of China Mobile is MOB, etc.

All fields are in network byte order ("big-endian", per [](#RFC1700), Data Notation).

The aim to use short names in the fields to limit the data size of EIL, decrease the DDoS risk. The null value 0x20 signifies that the field is unknown. If all fields in EIL are set to null value, means that client doesn’t want to use EIL.

# Protocol Description

## Originating the Option

EIL can be initialized by Public Recursive Resolver, ISP Recursive Resolver, or Local Forwarding Resolver.

### P-Model: Public Recursive Resolver

When a public Recursive Resolver receives a DNS query, it can guess geolocation of client's IP and generate the EIL OPT data, 
then send EIL query to the Authoritative Server.
This will move the "guess geolocation of client’s IP" work from Authoritative Server to Public Recursive Resolver, lighten the burden of Authoritative Server, but increase DDoS risk on Public Recursive Resolver.

To improve user privacy, if a Recursive Resolver receives a dns query with ECS, it can guess the isp location of SOURCE-PREFIX from the ECS OPT data, and make a new dns query with EIL, then send the query to Authoritative Server which supports EIL.

P-model is the most recommended and close to ECS.

### I-Model: ISP Recursive Resolver

ISP Recursive Resolver only serves its customers, each of whom has a static geolocation. 
ISP Recursive Resolver can add EIL transparent to end user, 
and then Authoritative Server doesn't need to "guess geolocation of client’s IP". 

EIL will benefit if the Authoritative Server could not find the approximate 
geolocation of ISP Recursive Resolver, which is crucial 
to DNS response accuracy in ECS.

### L-Model: Local Forwarding Resolver

Local Forwarding Resolver is usually on the first-hop router, 
such as public Wi-Fi hotspot routers and Cisco/Linksys/Netgear/TP-LINK home routers.

When a Local Forwarding Resolver that implements EIL receives a DNS query from an end 
user, it surely can know about the geolocation information 
of client’s IP, and generate the EIL OPT data, then send 
the EIL query to the intermediate Recursive Resolver. 
Intermediate Recursive Resolver sends the EIL query to the Authoritative Server. 

In this condition, both public Recursive Resolver and 
Authoritative Server don't need to "guess geolocation of 
client’s IP", because the Local Forwarding Resolver 
supplies the geolocation precisely. That is, EIL can reduce 
dependence on the IP geolocation database quality, which 
is crucial to DNS response accuracy in ECS.

If a Local Fowarding Resolver had sent a query with EIL, and recieves a REFUSE response, it must regenerate a query with no EIL.

##  Generating a Response

### Whitelist

EIL contains a whitelist for COUNTRY-CODE, AREA-CODE and ISP, which can be maintained by the DNSOP working group. 
Authoritative Servers that supporting EIL must only response the EIL queries matched the whitelist. 
Recursive Resolver that supporting EIL must only cache the EIL responses matched the whitelist.

###  Authoritative Server

Using the isp location specified in the EIL option of dns query, an Authoritative Server can generate a tailored response.

Authoritative Servers that have not implemented or enabled support for the EIL ought to safely ignore it within incoming queries, response the query as a normal case without EDNS0 option. Such a server MUST NOT include an EIL option within replies to indicate lack of support for it.  

An Authoritative Server that has implemented this protocol and receives an EIL option MUST include an EIL option in its response to indicate that it SHOULD be cached accordingly.

An Authoritative Server will return a more appropriate tailored response for the query with an EIL option containing more pricisely AREA-CODE.

###  Intermediate Nameserver

  Like ECS, Intermediate Nameserver passes a dns response with an EIL option to its client when the client indicates support EIL.

  If an Intermediate Nameserver receives a response that has a larger area than the AREA-CODE provided in its query, it SHOULD still provide the result as the answer to the triggering client request even if the client is in a smaller area. 

##  Handling EIL Responses and Caching

If an Intermediate Nameserver had sent a query with EIL, and receives a NOERROR response without EIL option, it SHOULD treat this answer as suitable for all clients.

Other handling considerations are similar with ECS, SECTION 7.3.

###  Caching the Response

   In the cache, all resource records in the Answer section MUST be tied to the isp location specified in the response. The Answer seciton is valid for all areas which the EIL option covered. For example, an EIL option { "COUNTRY-CODE": "CN", "AREA-CODE": "059X", "ISP": "TEL" } covers all 9 Cities in FuJian Province of China Telecommunications ISP.

   Same with ECS, The Additional and Authority sections are excluded.

   Enabling support for EIL in an Intermediate Nameserver will increase the size of the cache, and prevent "client subnet leak" privacy concern of ECS.
   
###  Answering from Cache

   Cache lookups are first done as usual for a DNS query, using the query tuple of < name, type, class >. Then, the appropriate RRset MUST be chosen based on the isp location matching.  

   IF there was an EIL option, the Intermediate Nameserver will lookup for < same COUNTRY-CODE, same ISP, same AREA-CODE > of the same query tuple in the cache.
   Otherwise, try to find < same COUNTRY-CODE, same ISP, fuzzy matching AREA-CODE > of the same query tuple in the cache, only fuzzy match 1 digit in tail. For example, find the AREA-CODE 059X fuzzy matching 0590~0599.

   If no EIL option was provided, the safest choice of the Intermediate Nameserver is dealing the query as a normal case without EDNS0 option. 

   If no EIL option was provided,  but the Intermediate Nameserver want to be more aggressive, it can guess the isp location from the souce IP of the query, then respond as if there was an EIL option with the guessed information. 
   Users can be beneficial when the Intermediate Nameserver has a more precise IP location database than the Authoritative Server, especially in global public DNS service like GoogleDNS(8.8.8.8).

   If no matching is found, the Intermediate Nameserver MUST perform resolution as usual.

### Support ECS and EIL at the same time

Name servers can support ECS and EIL at the same time. 
ECS and EIL can’t be both initiated at the same dns packet. 
It is better for user privacy if name servers initiate the EIL query prior to the ECS query.

If authoritative  servers  support  both  ECS and  EIL, Recursive  resolvers  can  cache  both  ECS 
response and EIL response, there are some choices for Recursive Resolvers when they receive dns queries.

    Receive EIL query: 
        Search in EIL cache. 
        If cache is matched, return EIL response. 
        Otherwise, send EIL query to Authoritative Server. 
 
    Receive ECS query: 
        Search in ECS cache. 
        If cache is matched, return ECS response. 
        Otherwise, send ECS query to Authoritative Server. 
 
    Receive DNS query without EDNS option: 
        Search in ECS cache. 
        If cache is matched, return ECS response. 
        Otherwise,  
            Guess the geolocation information of the client's IP, 
            build EIL option for the query packet. 
            Search in EIL cache. 
            If cache is matched, return EIL response. 
            Otherwise, send EIL query to Authoritative Server. 
 
    Receive DNS query with not-ECS/not-EIL option: 
        Search in not-EDNS cache. 
        If cache is matched, return response. 
        Otherwise, send the DNS query to Authoritative Server. 
 
    Receive ECS query, improve user privacy: 
        Guess the geolocation information of the client's IP, 
        build EIL option for the query packet.
        Search in EIL cache. 
        If cache is matched, return EIL response RR with origin ECS option. 
        Otherwise, send EIL query to Authoritative Server.

##  Delegations and Negative Answers

  EIL's delegation case is similar with ECS, Additional and Authority Sections SHOULD ignore EIL.

  For negative answers, Authoritative Servers return traditional negative answers without EIL.

##  Transitivity
    
  EIL's transitivity concerns are similar with ECS.

  Name servers should only enable EIL where it is expected to benefit the end users, 
such as dealing with some latency-sensitive CDN domain queries in a complex network environment.

#  IANA Considerations

   This document defines EIL, need request IANA to assign a new EDNS0 option code to EIL.

# Security Considerations

## DNSSEC

EIL is not signed.

## Privacy

The biggest privacy concern on ECS is that client subnet information is personally identifiable. The more 
domains publish their zones on a third-party Authoritative Server, the more end user privacy information can be 
gathered by the Authoritative Server according to the ECS queries. 

EIL is to improve user privacy which is inspired by ECS, prevented leaks in the client subnet information.

Like ECS, EIL will leak the global zonefile configurations of the Authoritative Servers more easily than normal case.

## Target Censorship 

 DNS traffic is plain text by default. It is easily to be 
blocked  or  poisoned  by  internet  target  censorship.  To 
bypass the censorship, it is better to encrypt the dns traffic 
or use some proxy tunnel. 

  EIL’s geolocation information covers bigger area than 
ECS’s client subnet information. Therefore, compared to 
ECS  in  plain  text  condition,  EIL  is  weaker  at  blocking 
record  attack,  but  stronger  at  targeted  DNS  poisoning 
attack.

## Cache Size

Like  ECS,  cache  size  will  raise  if  a  public  recursive 
resolver supports EIL. The cache size of ECS grows up 
with the number of client subnets. The cache size of EIL 
is  related  to the  row count in  the < COUNTRY-CODE, AREA-CODE, 
ISP >  geolocation  whitelist.  Therefore,  under  IPv6 
environment, the cache size of EIL will be smaller than 
ECS.
 
## DDoS

To migrate the DDoS problem:

*  If an Authority Server receives a dns query with unknown data in EIL option, it SHOULD return the default response whose EIL option with null value.

*  Nameservers OPTIONAL only implement EIL when the query is from a TCP connection.

More migration techniques described in [](#RFC7871), Section 11.3.

# Example 

Authoritative Server of www.example.com has enabled EIL.

Stub DNS query A resource record of www.example.com .

## P-Model

     Stub DNS 

     -> Local Forwarding Resolver (61.48.7.2) 

     -> Public Forwarding Resolver(AliDNS, 223.5.5.5) 

     -> Public Recursive Resolver(AliDNS, 202.108.250.231) 

     -> Authoritative Server

Public Forwarding Resolver 223.5.5.5 could enable EIL and generate the EIL OPT data { "COUNTRY-CODE": "CN", "AREA-CODE": "010", "ISP": "UNI" } based on 61.48.7.2.

P-Model will not leak client subnet to Authoritative Server.

## I-Model

     Stub DNS 

     -> Local Forwarding Resolver 

     -> ISP Forwarding Resolver(202.106.196.115) 

     -> ISP Recursive Resolver(61.135.23.92) 

     -> Authoritative Server

ISP Recursive Resolver 61.135.23.92 could enable EIL and generate the EIL OPT data { "COUNTRY-CODE": "CN", "AREA-CODE": "010", "ISP": "UNI" } based on 61.135.23.92.

If Authoritative Server doesn't know much about 61.135.23.92, EIL will be helpful.

## L-Model

     Stub DNS 

     -> Local Fowarding Resolver(58.60.109.234) 
     
     -> ... 

     -> Authoritative Server

Local Fowarding Resolver 58.60.109.234 could enable EIL and generate the option data is { "COUNTRY-CODE": "CN", "AREA-CODE": "0755", "ISP": "TEL" } based on 58.60.109.234.

L-Model can give the most precisely isp location information for dns resolution.

# Acknowledgements

EIL is inspired by ECS, the authors especially thanks to C. Contavalli, W. van der Gaast, D. Lawrence, and W. Kumari. 

Thanks a lot to all in the DNSOP and DNSEXT mailing list.
